And so?
And so,
I'm sitting there staring at him, right?
He tells me to get my crunchy
fucking fucknuts the fuck out of there.
You believe that shit?
You know what I said, right?
- No, what did you say?
Shit.'Okay.'
- You fucking said, 'Okay.'
I'm sure you did.
Control Center,
this is Stillwell 1215.
Thou hast condemned us justly.
Go ahead, Stillwell 1215.
I'm about four cars
out of 57th Street station...
...being delayed by a red signal light.
Should be green, Stillwell 1215.
Yeah, tell me something
I don't already know.
All right, roll through it slow,
extreme caution, per the rulebook.
Yeah, cracked rail. Nine-hundred feet
from the east end of the platform.
It's the goddamn cold.
Metal contracts, you know that.
I got it, I got it.
How long it take to fix it?
Gotta put a plate on it. Two hours.
"And the old man?"
Thank you. Make it an hour and a half,
I'll buy you a beer.
Shit, G.B. I hate to see you
down here on the floor, man.
Temporary, baby. I'll be up there
behind the glass before you know it.
I'm gonna need the R train...
...to switch over
to the express tracks at 34th.
Which express tracks?
- The one that Q uses.
Once they exit the 57th Street,
they can switch over to the F Line.
Straight into Queens.
Once they get to Queens, they switch
back at 36th Street to the R Line.
All you gotta do, suspend the W,
N and R will pick up the slack.
I can't see where I gotta look.
Unlock the door.
Do it now or I'll kill you. Do it.
All right, all right.
Shut up and walk.
First car, go.
See? I told you I could do this.
Big fucking deal,
you did what you said you'd do.
All right.
Five minutes of peace.
Yeah.
- Nice.
Nice.
- All right.
There you go.
I'm on the train and I still got you.
You still got me?
- I got you. What are you doing?
You still got me?
Oh, my God.
Baby? Baby?
Give me the cutting key.
Cutting key.
Control Center calling Pelham 123.
Come in, Pelham 123.
Why did you stop?
You're all green ahead.
Control Center calling Pelham 123.
Control Center calling Pelham 123.
Why did you stop, 123?
You got green ahead.
It's okay.
Life is simple now.
You just gotta do what I say.
Not now, okay?
Where are you from?
Brooklyn.
- You lrish?
Yeah.
I thought so.
Who's driving Pelham 123?
Maybe something fell on the tracks.
Wait. Are we going backwards?
42nd Street tower,
I got a train wrong-railing...
...on the southbound Lexington
Avenue Line just north of you.
Listen up,
we need to stop and stay in-station.
All southbound locals
just north of the 51st Street station.
The operator on 123 is Jerry Pollard.
I know Jerry Pollard.
I went to motorman school with Jerry.
Pelham 123,
come in to me, Pelham 123.
Pelham 123, Jerry Pollard,
what's going on down there?
This is Control Center.
What's going on, 123?
Get an express train to go alongside
them, see what we see in the cab.
Yeah, this is South Ferry 105. I can't
get my windshield wiper to turn on.
South Ferry 105, there's a circuit
breaker right behind you for that.
What's going on?
Maestro, what's going on?
Cop.
- Excuse me.
Fuck.
- Watch your backs. Watch your backs.
When I say stop, stop it hard.
Transit Police.
- Stop.
Everybody sit the fuck down.
Down.
Sit the fuck down.
Jesus. We're getting reports
of gunshots down the tunnel.
Sergeant Moran.
Delgado, let's call off that express.
- Got it.
I'm gonna die.
I'm gonna fucking die, man.
Come on. Hey.
Everybody up. By the window.
Come on, up, up, up.
Stand up. Stand up. Come on.
Move it. Against the window.
What the fuck is going on?
There was a cop. Bashkin shot him.
I think-- I think he's dead.
Put Bashkin on and find your fucking guts.
Do it.
- Fuck.
What happened?
- A cop. He's dead.
Put the conductor on.
What's your name, conductor?
- Regina.
Regina, baby, listen,
you got a job to do, honey.
A job?
God put you on this Earth
for one thing and one thing only.
You conduct those people off the train...
...up to the platform.
You got that? Let me hear it.
Let me hear you do that.
Listen up, everybody.
We're gonna go back to the platform.
I need everybody to--
Regina. Let's do it again.
Conduct those people.
Listen. Now, we're gonna head back
towards the platform.
I want everybody to slowly get up.
I'm gonna get you off this train.
- Good.
Now, we're gonna be on the tracks,
so if you don't need it, leave it.
Have been put on alert regarding--
Right here, right here.
"My poem is of the same character.
Right here, right here.
Cross right here, right here.
Go.
- Cross over right here, right here.
Let's go.
Up the stairs, up the stairs.
- Here you go.
Every cop in the city is on the way.
- Maybe it wasn't gunshots.
Train could be blowing breakers.
Or the motor blew?
No, this is on purpose.
Fuck you.
Yeah, I'm coming.
- Get the fuck off the walls.
Shut the fuck up and come on.
Shit. Come on.
Ramos.
"True, again, we have all heard of miracles being wrought ever since the 'age of miracles' passed away to return no more. We had, and still have, our saints credited with performing the most miraculous cures; and, if we can believe their biographers, there have been those among them who have been personally visited by the Queen of Heaven. But Satan sleepeth not, and the first germs of doubt, and ever-increasing unbelief in such wonders, already had begun to sprout in Christendom as early as the sixteenth century. It was just at that time that a new and terrible heresy first made its appearance in the north of Germany.* [*Luther's reform] A great star 'shining as it were a lamp... fell upon the fountains waters'... and 'they were made bitter.' This 'heresy' blasphemously denied 'miracles.' But those who had remained faithful believed all the more ardently, the tears of mankind ascended to Him as heretofore, and the Christian world was expecting Him as confidently as ever; they loved Him and hoped in Him, thirsted and hungered to suffer and die for Him just as many of them had done before.... So many centuries had weak, trusting humanity implored Him, crying with ardent faith and fervour: 'How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost Thou not come!' So many long centuries hath it vainly appealed to Him, that at last, in His inexhaustible compassion, He consenteth to answer the prayer.... He decideth that once more, if it were but for one short hour, the people—His long-suffering, tortured, fatally sinful, his loving and child-like, trusting people—shall behold Him again. The scene of action is placed by me in Spain, at Seville, during that terrible period of the Inquisition, when, for the greater glory of God, stakes were flaming all over the country.
Turn the power off from there down.
What?
"It waits for Him with the same old faith and the same emotion; aye, with a far greater faith, for fifteen centuries have rolled away since the last sign from heaven was sent to man,
Turn the power off from there down.
Okay, I got it.
My fucking lucky day.
Shit.
What the fuck is wrong with you, man?
Pelham 123 to Rail Control Center.
Do you read me?
Yes, I read you, Pelham 123.
This is Control Center. Who is this?
It's me, man. I didn't wanna call
till everything was ready.
It's not Jerry.
- I don't know who it is.
I understand, I understand,
Pelham 123.
Who the hell is this?
This is the man who's gonna rock this city.
This is the man who's gonna
give the city a run for the money.
Look up. Look up at your screen
and you tell me what you see.
You see what I've done?
I see it.
One car is much more manageable
than 10 with the manpower I got.
Motorman's gonna tell you
about it. Tell him what we got.
They got hostages, lots of them.
"'The terrible and wise spirit, the spirit of self annihilation and non-being,' goes on the Inquisitor, 'the great spirit of negation conversed with Thee in the wilderness, and we are told that he "tempted" Thee... Was it so? And if it were so, then it is impossible to utter anything more truthful than what is contained in his three offers, which Thou didst reject, and which are usually called "temptations." Yea; if ever there was on earth a genuine striking wonder produced, it was on that day of Thy three temptations, and it is precisely in these three short sentences that the marvelous miracle is contained. If it were possible that they should vanish and disappear for ever, without leaving any trace, from the record and from the memory of man, and that it should become necessary again to devise, invent, and make them reappear in Thy history once more, thinkest Thou that all the world's sages, all the legislators, initiates, philosophers and thinkers, if called upon to frame three questions which should, like these, besides answering the magnitude of the event, express in three short sentences the whole future history of this our world and of mankind—dost Thou believe, I ask Thee, that all their combined efforts could ever create anything equal in power and depth of thought to the three propositions offered Thee by the powerful and all-wise spirit in the wilderness? Judging of them by their marvelous aptness alone, one can at once perceive that they emanated not from a finite, terrestrial intellect, but indeed, from the Eternal and the Absolute. In these three offers we find, blended into one and foretold to us, the complete subsequent history of man; we are shown three images, so to say, uniting in them all the future axiomatic, insoluble problems and contradictions of human nature, the world over. In those days, the wondrous wisdom contained in them was not made so apparent as it is now, for futurity remained still veiled; but now, when fifteen centuries have elapsed, we see that everything in these three questions is so marvelously foreseen and foretold, that to add to, or to take away from, the prophecy one jot, would be absolutely impossible!
And they got machine guns.
- That's Jerry.
That's Jerry.
- Yeah, that's right.
Check me,
do you understand that?
I check, I understand.
Didn't I tell you to knock first?
Good, because this is what we call
a cash transaction.
Now, you understand commodities,
don't you?
"No, no, quite the reverse, for Father Paissiy once told me something very similar to what you yourself say, though, of course, not that—something quite different," suddenly added Alexis, blushing.
You know, pork bellies?
Gold? Light crude?
Listen, no disrespect, but maybe I'm
not the guy you should be talking to.
Oh, no, you are exactly the guy
I wanna talk to.
Now, I want you to look at the ticker
and you tell me...
...what is the going rate
for a New York City hostage today?
You think a million dollars
is too much? I do. I think it's corny.
Now get your calculator out.
You got one?
Do you have a calculator?
- Yeah, we got one. I got one.
Okay, good. Add this up.
You got $526,315 and 79 cents.
That's 526,315.79.
"I can hardly realize the situation described—what is all this, Ivan?" suddenly interrupted Alyosha, who had remained silently listening to his brother. "Is this an extravagant fancy, or some mistake of the old man, an impossible quid pro quo?"
Now, times that by 19.
What do you got?
What is he, a goddamn accountant?
That's 10 million?
- What do you got?
That comes out to 10 million plus one cent.
That is a deal.
You call the mayor
and you tell him the price.
And then you tell him I want it in
100,000 $100 bills, you got that?
I got it. What about the one cent?
Keep that, that's your broker fee.
Now, I want the rest in plain suitcases...
...the kind with the wheels
and the portable handle, okay?
Now, this is not a futures contract.
This is a spot trade.
That means there's a time limit on it.
Okay, you got that?
Now, what do you think is a fair time limit?
You know, I don't know.
I'm really just a guy--
Come on, give me a time limit.
Give me a fair time limit.
Thursday.
- I was thinking more like an hour.
Now, what's your watch say?
Two-thirteen.
Oh,
that's exactly what my watch says.
So at 3:13, I want that money here,
motherfucker.
And after that, there is a late fee.
What do you think
that late fee is gonna be?
Come on, tell me what it'll be.
You're gonna kill the passengers?
Oh, commodities is what I start to kill.
One for every minute
past the deadline I am forced to wait.
They become more valuable this way...
...and still at the same price.
He's underground.
He's never gonna pull this off.
Don't tell me, tell him.
- Who the hell is this guy?
I don't know who it is.
- Garber, just stay with it.
What's your name?
What's your name, my man?
- My name?
What's your name?
Tell him?
Garber.
- Garber, okay.
Now, seriously, man,
in 59 minutes...
...I'm gonna start killing passengers.
So my advice to you is to get on
the phone, get the mayor notified now.
Listen, I mean....
I'm just a civil-service employee.
I can't get ahold of the mayor.
That's your problem, not mine.
It's like, who's responsible for
who lives and who dies in New York?
That's New York City's problem.
Get the fuck off the radio
and notify the mayor, motherfucker.
Okay.
Nine months of this and I'm free.
Next mayor gets inaugurated...
...I'm gonna be in Saint-Tropez
on the beach with a pina colada.
I will never have to ride the subway
ever again.
Never say never, sir.
- Never.
All right,
what's next for the afternoon?
East Harlem Elementary at 2:30.
You're to read
The Cat In The Hat to the third grade.
Every time I go to the schools,
I get sick. They all have runny noses.
Call Dr. Katz, tell him I want him
waiting at the school, with a flu shot.
Mayor's office.
He's in Car 3.
- Yeah.
What happened?
Somebody just hijacked a 6 train.
It's stopped in the tunnel
between 51st and 42nd.
Another idiot with a gun.
What do we know?
It's unclear, but I have a car
waiting for us downstairs.
Subway will get us there faster.
All right. Let the doors close.
Tell them we'll meet them at 59th Street.
Tell the conductor this is now an express.
We're skipping the next five stops.
- What?
I gotta get to work.
- Hold on, hold on.
Everybody will get where they
need to go, we'll make all the stops.
Maybe he's not such a douchebag
after all, huh?
Funny.
Figures you'd be the one
to get a call like this.
Hostage negotiation team here in five
minutes and the mayor's been notified.
You gonna tell him?
- Get the fuck out of here.
My shift's over in 10 minutes.
What are you staring at?
- Your face.
I'm trying to remember
for when it's not here.
You gonna start in on me?
- Right, I'm gonna start in on you.
Don't fuck this up, Garber.
- You wanna do it?
It's your station, your call.
Oh, it's my call now?
- That's right. Your call.
Come on.
Pelham 123, come in, this is
Rail Control Center. Are you there?
Gerber Baby boy. What's up?
Garber. Just wanted to let you know
the mayor's been notified.
Are they gonna pay?
I don't know. I'm just the,
what'd you call me? The broker.
No, no, you represent
the city of New York right now, buddy.
I can tell you you're dealing with one
of the all-time bureaucracies, I know.
I mean, it takes time.
- You'd better fix the bureaucracy...
...because when the time comes,
these hostages...
...are gonna go real quick.
You got it, you got it.
Any other demands?
Yeah,
no fucking pizza for them, either.
No, I mean, are you guys, like,
you know, are you terrorists?
Do I sound like a terrorist?
Do I terrorize you?
Actually, you don't, but I mean,
not that I ever talked to one.
So--
So, what, this is just about money?
Oh, is there anything else?
There's not dying.
Yeah, well, you live, you die. You
go with the current or you fight it...
...you all end up in the same place.
Where's that, Jersey?
- Yeah, you watch it. I was born there.
I'm just saying,
you're up in the motorman's cab.
That means you're on the radio, which
means that you're an easy target.
You gotta know the drill.
I know that soon I won't be alone...
...and if I'm the first to get shot,
I'm the first of many to get shot.
That's correct,
but then you'd still be dead.
Dead is an improvement on a lot
of things I can think of, buddy boy.
Sounds like he slept with my ex.
You know, we all owe God a death.
And I'm a man who pays his debts.
Are you a man who pays his debts?
Yeah, yeah, sure.
TV, cable, and my mortgage.
That's a little like dying once a month.
- You're married, you're a married man.
Maybe.
No, no, no. You're married, man.
Married men have mortgages.
You got a mortgage?
I don't know. Why don't you tell me,
then we'll both know?
I don't know. I'm sure someone
"But all that is absurd!" suddenly exclaimed Alyosha, who had hitherto listened perplexed and agitated but in profound silence. "Your poem is a glorification of Christ, not an accusation, as you, perhaps, meant to be. And who will believe you when you speak of 'freedom'? Is it thus that we Christians must understand it? It is Rome (not all Rome, for that would be unjust), but the worst of the Roman Catholics, the Inquisitors and Jesuits, that you have been exposing! Your Inquisitor is an impossible character. What are these sins they are taking upon themselves? Who are those keepers of mystery who took upon themselves a curse for the good of mankind? Who ever met them? We all know the Jesuits, and no one has a good word to say in their favor; but when were they as you depict them? Never, never! The Jesuits are merely a Romish army making ready for their future temporal kingdom, with a mitred emperor—a Roman high priest at their head. That is their ideal and object, without any mystery or elevated suffering. The most prosaic thirsting for power, for the sake of the mean and earthly pleasures of life, a desire to enslave their fellow-men, something like our late system of serfs, with themselves at the head as landed proprietors—that is all that they can be accused of. They may not believe in God, that is also possible, but your suffering Inquisitor is simply—a fancy!"
out there loves you dearly and...
...you know,
would be worried about you.
You're in the motorman's cab...
...you got no cover,
sniper on the way.
Well, you know,
circumstances are my protection...
...because right now, you know,
hostages are good insurance.
By the way I see it,
I'm pretty well-protected.
You know, this reminds me
of being in a confessional.
Are you Catholic?
I'm married, you're Catholic.
Maybe. I don't know.
- No, you're Catholic.
And a good Catholic...
...would know he's got
a trainload of innocent people.
You don't wanna
kill innocent people, do you?
A good Catholic
knows that nobody is innocent.
And I'm not gonna kill all these
hostages. I'd give up my leverage.
Well,
I hope you know what you're doing.
It's running like a fucking Swiss watch
down here, so don't worry about it.
So, what do I call you anyway?
Call me Ryder.
As in 'train rider'?
Call me Ryder, with a Y.
Ryder.
I like you, Garber.
I do like you, man.
You may be the last friend I ever make.
As heav'n would send a sign no more.
Well, I hope you're wrong, Mr. Ryder.
But, you know, I'm just a guy.
I'm just a guy on the other end of the mic.
Oh, you don't think this was meant to be?
You don't think this was fate,
you and me?
I don't know. Things happen
that lead to other things.
And maybe this was one of them,
but that's it.
I never get excited about coincidence.
Well, you got 50 fucking minutes,
so check me.
All right. 50 minutes, check.
And don't call me unless you got news.
You got it.
- Motherfucker.
G.B.
You're fucking good, man.
Okay. Move it the other way.
All right, come on, move it.
The other way.
Okay, now move it back a little less.
Bingo. Got it.
All right, we got it.
Who's talked to these jokers?
- That would be me.
Yeah, under my supervision.
Who are you?
Vincent Camonetti,
NYPD Hostage Negotiation Team.
John Johnson,
Chief Transportation Officer.
Walter Garber.
I'm Console Dispatch, right now.
What can you tell me, Walter?
His name is Ryder, with a Y.
And he's asking for $10 million by 3:13.
Looking toward the future. Say what
he'd do if he doesn't get the money?
He said he'd kill a passenger
every minute we go over.
Starting at 3:13 p.m.?
- 3-1-3, yes, sir.
Anything else?
- He's smart.
If he's smart, why is he doing
something so fucking stupid?
On the train radio?
- We can get him right here.
Any chance that we can get
a signal down there?
We'd like to get him on one of our cells.
No,
there's no chance, not where he is.
What's this?
'Leverage, spot trade'?
Yeah, it's weird. He's like
a money guy, like a Wall Street.
He talked about the passengers
like they were commodities.
'Catholic'?
- Yeah, I think he's Catholic.
For chrissakes, Garber, you gonna tell
us what his zodiac sign is now?
I'm just saying I think he's Catholic.
Man asked me about 'Catholic.'
I wrote it down. I'm giving my opinion.
Unlike other people,
I have an opinion.
Fellas, can we settle this dispute later?
Absolutely.
- Why do you think he's Catholic?
I think he's Catholic because he talked
about original sin and confessions.
I wrote it down.
I didn't know what else to do.
Did he ask for a priest?
- No.
Good. Anything else?
He sounded, the way he was talking,
he sounded like he's not afraid to die.
Yeah, well, it's early yet.
The calls are coming through...?
- Right here.
You hit the blue button,
you can reach him.
He'll come back to you.
- Mind if I take your seat?
No, no, go right ahead.
- Thank you, Walter.
You're welcome.
This is the six wire.
You don't have to touch that one.
Okay.
- That goes around the room.
Six wire.
- Why don't you--
Just hit the talk here and then that mutes it.
Take the rest of the day off.
Get out of here.
I thought I'd stick around,
just make sure that....
Well, that wasn't a suggestion.
So why don't you go home?
All right.
This is it. You got all the information
over here about the 313.
Wait for his call.
- You want me to work it up right now?
You call headquarters, let them know
that I'm here and I'm on the job. Okay.
I gotta take a piss.
So who's stopping you?
All right. We wouldn't wanna end up
on any Amnesty lnternational lists...
...so step up to the door, face out.
Open the middle door.
Do what you gotta do.
Can I jump down there?
You gotta go or don't you?
- I do, I gotta go.
Step up, my man. Let's go, let's go.
That kid's going places.
All right, close the doors.
Pelham 123, come in.
Pelham 123, please come in.
- All right, everybody, sit down.
Who is this?
This is Lieutenant Camonetti. I'm with
the NYPD Hostage Negotiation Team.
I'd like to talk to you
about the situation that we're in.
Where the fuck is Garber?
Mr. Garber is a train dispatcher.
This is now a police matter.
- Yeah, well, I wanna talk to Garber.
I'm sorry, Mr. Ryder,
but Mr. Garber is no longer involved.
Motorman, up.
Put Garber on.
- To be honest...
...Mr. Garber has gone home.
Put Garber on the fucking line
or I kill the motorman.
I guarantee you I am the best person
for you to be talking to right now.
Give me a moment and I'll explain why.
You were always
gonna be the first one to go.
Oh, Jesus.
Jesus.
Mr. Camonetti...
...you got 60 fucking seconds
before I kill another.
Okay? Fifty-nine, 58, 57....
- Get him. Just get Garber.
Fifty-six, 55, 54....
- We're trying to locate Garber...
...ASAP, Mr. Ryder.
Why did you do that?
Mr. Camonetti or whatever
fucking greaseball name you got...
...the city of fucking New York
killed Jerry, okay?
Fifty-three, 52, 51....
Garber. Garber.
Garber, he killed Jerry Pollard, man.
Come on,
he wants to talk to you right now.
He's here. He's on the way.
Eleven, 10, nine, eight, seven....
He's approaching the desk.
- Six, five, four, three, two, one....
Hey, it's me, it's Garber.
Garber. You didn't say goodbye.
You killed Jerry?
No, the city of fucking New York
killed Jerry, okay?
The biggest rathole
in the world fucking killed Jerry.
Okay? Now you can
chalk another victim up to NYC.
Now, can everybody hear me?
- Yeah, we hear you, loud and clear.
Now you don't have to tell the cops...
...they don't tell me how to do it or how
it's gonna be. I fucking tell them.
Don't you ever, ever leave me again.
Or I'll just have to hunt you down
and I'll kill you.
Now, you got 39--
Thirty-nine minutes. Check me.
Thirty-nine, check.
This is Staley to ESU 2.
What's your position?
ESU 2 approaching hostage car
from south tunnel.
Go, go, go.
Ten-million dollars. I'll write him
a check and get it over with.
"Such is the secret meaning of "temptation" the first, and that is what Thou didst reject in the wilderness for the sake of that freedom which Thou didst prize above all. Meanwhile Thy tempter's offer contained another great world-mystery. By accepting the "bread," Thou wouldst have satisfied and answered a universal craving, a ceaseless longing alive in the heart of every individual human being, lurking in the breast of collective mankind, that most perplexing problem—"whom or what shall we worship?" There exists no greater or more painful anxiety for a man who has freed himself from all religious bias, than how he shall soonest find a new object or idea to worship. But man seeks to bow before that only which is recognized by the greater majority, if not by all his fellow-men, as having a right to be worshipped; whose rights are so unquestionable that men agree unanimously to bow down to it. For the chief concern of these miserable creatures is not to find and worship the idol of their own choice, but to discover that which all others will believe in, and consent to bow down to in a mass. It is that instinctive need of having a worship in common that is the chief suffering of every man, the chief concern of mankind from the beginning of times. It is for that universality of religious worship that people destroyed each other by sword. Creating gods unto themselves, they forwith began appealing to each other: "Abandon your deities, come and bow down to ours, or death to ye and your idols!" And so will they do till the end of this world; they will do so even then, when all the gods themselves have disappeared, for then men will prostrate themselves before and worship some idea. Thou didst know, Thou couldst not be ignorant of, that mysterious fundamental principle in human nature, and still thou hast rejected the only absolute banner offered Thee, to which all the nations would remain true, and before which all would have bowed—the banner of earthly bread, rejected in the name of freedom and of "bread in the kingdom of God"! Behold, then, what Thou hast done furthermore for that "freedom's" sake! I repeat to Thee, man has no greater anxiety in life than to find some one to whom he can make over that gift of freedom with which the unfortunate creature is born. But he alone will prove capable of silencing and quieting their consciences, that shall succeed in possessing himself of the freedom of men. With "daily bread" an irresistible power was offered Thee: show a man "bread" and he will follow Thee, for what can he resist less than the attraction of bread? But if, at the same time, another succeed in possessing himself of his conscience—oh! then even Thy bread will be forgotten, and man will follow him who seduced his conscience. So far Thou wert right. For the mystery of human being does not solely rest in the desire to live, but in the problem—for what should one live at all? Without a clear perception of his reasons for living, man will never consent to live, and will rather destroy himself than tarry on earth, though he be surrounded with bread. This is the truth. But what has happened? Instead of getting hold of man's freedom, Thou has enlarged it still more! Hast Thou again forgotten that to man rest and even death are preferable to a free choice between the knowledge of Good and Evil? Nothing seems more seductive in his eyes than freedom of conscience, and nothing proves more painful. And behold! instead of laying a firm foundation whereon to rest once for all man's conscience, Thou hast chosen to stir up in him all that is abnormal, mysterious, and indefinite, all that is beyond human strength, and has acted as if Thou never hadst any love for him, and yet Thou wert He who came to "lay down His life for His friends!" Thou hast burdened man's soul with anxieties hitherto unknown to him. Thirsting for human love freely given, seeking to enable man, seduced and charmed by Thee, to follow Thy path of his own free-will, instead of the old and wise law which held him in subjection, Thou hast given him the right henceforth to choose and freely decide what is good and bad for him, guided but by Thine image in his heart. But hast Thou never dreamt of the probability, nay, of the certainty, of that same man one day rejected finally, and controverting even Thine image and Thy truth, once he would find himself laden with such a terrible burden as freedom of choice? That a time would surely come when men would exclaim that Truth and Light cannot be in Thee, for no one could have left them in a greater perplexity and mental suffering than Thou has done, lading them with so many cares and insoluble problems. Thus, it is Thyself who hast laid the foundation for the destruction of Thine own kingdom and no one but Thou is to be blamed for it.
He wants it in cash.
- I was joking, LaSalle.
But we've been given one hour
to get the money together.
Ten-million dollars.
Where do they get these numbers?
Actually, 10 is the limit, sir.
Why is that?
Request to the City Controller,
he forwards it to one of our lenders...
...cash gets released to the Federal
Reserve. Limit at any time is 10 million.
Some idiot with a gun
wouldn't know that. I didn't know.
Well, you're very busy, sir.
- How do you know that?
Here he is.
Henry, what's the situation?
- They killed a hostage.
These guys may be the real deal.
I thought there was one idiot with a gun.
Multiple gunmen. They're not sure.
They've got 18 hostages.
They'll kill more in an hour. That's
the limit. They want you to know.
What do we know?
- Not amateurs.
They cut out a car,
stopped on a rise.
They can see us coming
100 yards either way.
How long to get the money?
I don't know.
- Find out.
You're not thinking of paying, are you?
- I'm thinking of time and being ready.
Call the Controller.
Tell them we'll pay.
What's with you and Garber, huh?
Tell me about him.
Scheduled to work today?
Yeah, absolutely. But....
- But what?
He's only had this particular job
for a couple weeks now.
Well, why is that?
- Well, he's under investigation.
What?
We were gonna suspend him--
- What's he being investigated for?
He went to Japan. He had to take
a look at some new trains...
...and the allegation is that he took a bribe.
Took a bribe?
Does he have a record?
Not that I know.
- You sure?
Yeah, yeah. I don't think so.
I gotta take this.
The identity of the hijackers is still unclear.
The Hostage Negotiation Team has
just arrived at MTA headquarters...
...to determine
if this is a terrorist enterprise.
Is that what we are? An enterprise?
We're an enterprise.
Well, pilot reports
that the aircraft has begun its descent.
This is Staley to ESU 4.
What's your ETA?
Approximately two minutes south of target.
Why is the train called Pelham 123?
Comes out of Pelham Bay
at 1:23 in the afternoon.
How did you end up with this call?
It's a Lexington Avenue train.
I got the Lexington Avenue desk.
Came through my desk.
Can you think of a reason
why you'd be targeted?
Someone wanna hurt you?
Something against you or something?
No.
You recognize his voice?
No. No, as I said, it was a coincidence
it came through my desk.
Did you pick this desk?
Or was it assigned to you?
Did l...?
I said, did you pick this desk
or was it assigned to you?
Can I take my coat off?
Doesn't make any sense.
What doesn't?
- Guy you're talking to.
He ain't a train dispatcher.
Walter Garber.
He's a big shot.
- Big shot at what?
Rail Control.
I mean, he runs things up there.
At least he did before I went up.
- His name is Walter?
Yeah.
Dude like that
shouldn't be answering the phone.
Mr. Ryder wants to talk to you.
- Right.
Are you sure you don't have
some sort of relationship with him?
I assure you, whatever relationship
I have with him is better than yours.
Jerry, my friend, was killed
while you were talking to Ryder.
Maybe that's a question
you ask yourself instead of me.
I didn't have anything to do with this.
But what I have in you,
Mr. Garber, is an unknown variable.
Unknown variable?
- Right. People's lives are at stake.
I understand that.
- Excuse me...
...if I try to get more comfortable
with you, okay?
It ain't working, but okay.
Now, with that in mind...
...would you agree
to a consensual search of your house?
Take me 40, 45 minutes to get a warrant.
What....
Yes, okay.
Got him.
Walter Garber, right there.
No shit, look at this.
Guy took a bribe, man.
- Yeah.
Baby.
ESU 2, this is Staley.
What's your overall status?
All positions secured.
All right,
hold your fire until instructed.
Pelham 123, can you hear me?
Yeah, loud and clear, back at you.
All right,
the mayor has agreed to pay...
...and they're getting the money
together right now.
Good.
Well, you know, you got 28 minutes,
so I advise him to make haste.
I'm sure he will.
- So is your first name Walter?
Excuse me?
- Your name, is it Walter?
Yes, it is.
- Good.
What are you doing dispatching trains?
I thought you were some sort of
MTA big shot.
I work for the MTA.
Today they put me at dispatch...
...and my bad luck.
I thought you didn't believe in bad luck.
I said I didn't believe in fate.
Do you believe in
rigged contracts for new trains?
Look, what are we talking about this for?
I need to know who I'm dealing with.
- You need to know who--?
Yeah, I want to know who I'm dealing
"He comes silently and unannounced; yet all—how strange—yea, all recognize Him, at once! The population rushes towards Him as if propelled by some irresistible force; it surrounds, throngs, and presses around, it follows Him.... Silently, and with a smile of boundless compassion upon His lips, He crosses the dense crowd, and moves softly on. The Sun of Love burns in His heart, and warm rays of Light, Wisdom and Power beam forth from His eyes, and pour down their waves upon the swarming multitudes of the rabble assembled around, making their hearts vibrate with returning love. He extends His hands over their heads, blesses them, and from mere contact with Him, aye, even with His garments, a healing power goes forth. An old man, blind from his birth, cries, 'Lord, heal me, that I may see Thee!' and the scales falling off the closed eyes, the blind man beholds Him... The crowd weeps for joy, and kisses the ground upon which He treads. Children strew flowers along His path and sing to Him, 'Hosanna!' It is He, it is Himself, they say to each other, it must be He, it can be none other but He! He pauses at the portal of the old cathedral, just as a wee white coffin is carried in, with tears and great lamentations. The lid is off, and in the coffin lies the body of a fair-child, seven years old, the only child of an eminent citizen of the city. The little corpse lies buried in flowers. 'He will raise the child to life!' confidently shouts the crowd to the weeping mother. The officiating priest who had come to meet the funeral procession, looks perplexed, and frowns. A loud cry is suddenly heard, and the bereaved mother prostrates herself at His feet. 'If it be Thou, then bring back my child to life!' she cries beseechingly. The procession halts, and the little coffin is gently lowered at his feet. Divine compassion beams forth from His eyes, and as He looks at the child, His lips are heard to whisper once more, 'Talitha Cumi'—and 'straightway the damsel arose.' The child rises in her coffin. Her little hands still hold the nosegay of white roses which after death was placed in them, and, looking round with large astonished eyes she smiles sweetly .... The crowd is violently excited. A terrible commotion rages among them, the populace shouts and loudly weeps, when suddenly, before the cathedral door, appears the Cardinal Grand Inquisitor himself.... He is tall, gaunt-looking old man of nearly four-score years and ten, with a stern, withered face, and deeply sunken eyes, from the cavity of which glitter two fiery sparks. He has laid aside his gorgeous cardinal's robes in which he had appeared before the people at the auto da-fe of the enemies of the Romish Church, and is now clad in his old, rough, monkish cassock. His sullen assistants and slaves of the 'holy guard' are following at a distance. He pauses before the crowd and observes. He has seen all. He has witnessed the placing of the little coffin at His feet, the calling back to life. And now, his dark, grim face has grown still darker; his bushy grey eyebrows nearly meet, and his sunken eye flashes with sinister light. Slowly raising his finger, he commands his minions to arrest Him....
with. I mean, are you a bad penny?
Let me explain something to you.
Being accused of something is one thing.
Being guilty of it
is something entirely different.
Well, agreed. But you gotta
take me through this, my man.
You got to tell me from the top.
This whole train thing. Come on.
All right,
I started out in maintenance.
Platform maintenance,
track maintenance, flagman...
...conductor.
- Conductor, really?
Yeah. And then motorman.
A motorman.
How long did you do that for?
I drove them over six years.
I went to tower operations,
assistant dispatcher, dispatcher.
I finally ended up--
Yeah, you're assistant chief
transportation officer or something.
Right?
- That's right.
And part of my job is to go out
to the manufacturers, you know...
...the people who build the trains
and bid on contracts for the trains.
Is that where you took the bribe?
To lull the trusting heart,
The Japanese train
over the Canadian train?
I did not take a bribe, all right?
I was accused of taking a bribe.
I have not been proven guilty yet.
They haven't said yet.
I mean, they haven't decided.
Well, they got no proof. I don't care
what they decide. It doesn't matter--
Then is this when they demoted you?
That's correct. They demoted me,
pending the outcome.
And now they're trying
to humiliate you, is that right?
Motherfuckers.
Look, I know
how these things work, man, okay?
Everything doesn't seem
to appear like what it is.
"The kiss burns his heart, but the old man remains firm in his own ideas and unbelief."
But you've gotta be
completely honest with me, man.
Don't know what you're talking about.
- How did you do it?
I didn't. I'm innocent.
Oh, you're innocent.
No, you're talking to a Catholic,
man.
We've been over innocent before.
Okay?
Look, I've been through all this, man.
So just tell me, how did you do it?
I didn't do it.
Okay, that's it. That's fucking it.
Damn it.
Kid. You.
- Me?
No, no, you. Up.
Get the fuck over there.
I don't know what you did to piss him off.
Garber.
You know what I'm looking at?
Do you know what I'm looking at?
- No, I do not.
First there's my gun, and at the end
of my gun-- What's your name?
George. Everyone calls me Geo.
- George. His friends call him Geo.
Got this '80s skateboard thing going.
He makes it work, but it's not gonna
look too good in his casket.
Listen, Ryder, just slow down.
We haven't reached the deadline.
No, there's no fucking deadline,
man.
You just gotta tell me the truth.
About what?
- The bribe.
Did you take it?
- I didn't take a bribe.
Okay, you got five seconds
to save this kid's life.
I didn't do anything.
Five....
- Just wait a second.
Four, three....
- Wait a second.
Two....
Fucking tell him how you did it.
- All right, okay.
Say it.
- I took the bribe.
How much?
Thirty....
How fucking much?
Thirty-five thousand dollars.
How did you do it?
I went to Japan to look at these trains.
It's part of my job.
I....
I don't get to vote, okay?
I just recommend.
I chose what I thought was the best train...
...the Japanese had the best train,
and I made my recommendation.
That's before you took the bribe.
Yes.
That was the train
you were gonna pick anyway, huh?
Yes.
- And now you're fighting for your job...
...and they're trying to humiliate you?
No, no, no. I did what I did.
And....
And it's not, you know,
it's not the MTA's fault.
What did you spend it on?
Look, what does this
got to do with anything, huh?
What did you fucking spend it on?
I used the money for my kids,
all right?
To pay my children's tuition.
I have a 17-year-old.
I have a 19-year-old daughter.
And I used the money to pay
for their college tuition, all right?
You know what, Garber?
You're my goddamn hero,
you know that?
You got a kid here, you don't even
know him, you saved his life.
That's brave, man.
That's fucking heroic.
Tell Garber thank you.
- Thank you, Garber.
'Thank you, Garber,
for saving my life.'
Thank you, Garber,
for saving my life.
You're welcome.
Sit down.
You're just like me, Garber.
I fueled this city.
I fed it breakfast every morning,
and now we're the bad guys.
I don't think so.
I don't fucking think so.
Hello, Therese.
- Honey, look.
There are police here, Walt.
They wanna search the house.
They said you said it was okay.
Yeah. Yeah, it's okay.
"You are, perhaps, a Mason yourself!" exclaimed Alyosha. "You do not believe in God," he added, with a note of profound sadness in his voice. But suddenly remarking that his brother was looking at him with mockery, "How do you mean then to bring your poem to a close?" he unexpectedly enquired, casting his eyes downward, "or does it break off here?"
It's-- Just let them in.
We got nothing to hide.
Is this about the investigation?
No, no. You watching TV?
This hostage thing.
Yeah, yeah, I'm watching it.
Well, it's just that....
I'll tell you about it when I get home...
...but I'm in the middle of it now and
they wanna do background checks...
...on everybody involved here
from the MTA.
That's why they're at the house.
- All right, okay. But you're okay?
I'm fine, I'm fine. Just let them in.
I'll see you when I get home.
All right. Okay, bye.
I'm sorry, Walter.
I am.
Listen, don't let this guy
bring you into his reality, all right?
That's what he wants to do.
He hurts you, you get angry.
He's got the advantage. Understand?
- Yeah.
Just deflect, if you can.
Okay? All right.
- All right.
I hope they don't get fucking lost.
Fuck me. Ten-million bucks.
The joke is,
say we dipped in, took some?
Bad guys would count it,
come up short, probably kill us.
No shit.
Geo, what the fuck's happening?
Geo. Geo, what's going on?
Geo.
I'm a fucking hostage.
Listen to me.
Stream it on our site. Call the news.
Shit.
Hey.
We've gotta do something.
They're gonna kill us.
You got a plan?
I thought you'd have one.
Because I'm some
tough-looking black guy?
I saw that ring on your finger.
That was a long time ago.
Okay?
- My husband had one just like it.
A severe sell-off underway...
...the Dow is down 450 points
in very heavy trading...
...as Wall Street reacts
to the terrorist attack...
...of the New York City subway system.
How's my hair look?
- Fine. You ready to make a statement?
"Let it be the latter, if you like," laughed Ivan, "since modern realism has so perverted your taste that you feel unable to realize anything from the world of fancy.... Let it be a quid pro quo, if you so choose it. Again, the Inquisitor is ninety years old, and he might have easily gone mad with his one idee fixe of power; or, it might have as well been a delirious vision, called forth by dying fancy, overheated by the auto-da-fe of the hundred heretics in that forenoon.... But what matters for the poem, whether it was a quid pro quo or an uncontrollable fancy? The question is, that the old man has to open his heart; that he must give out his thought at last; and that the hour has come when he does speak it out, and says loudly that which for ninety years he has kept secret within his own breast."
When I have something to tell them.
It's a leadership moment, sir.
I'm not running for re-election,
for fucking president.
I left my Rudy Giuliani suit at home.
You're being selfish.
It'll take 30 seconds to reassure them.
Over there.
- Mr. Mayor.
Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor.
- Will you be making a statement?
We're doing everything
the situation demands.
I'm not gonna speculate right now.
All right?
Mayor, is it terrorism?
- No.
Hey.
Mayor. Are they terrorists?
All right, all right, all right.
Listen, nobody said anything
about terrorism...
...or a bomb, anything like that.
Let's stop that right now, all right?
How about your divorce? Care
to speculate how that's going?
Your divorce, sir.
Been a lot of talk in the news lately...
...that you have extramarital problems.
Your divorce, sir.
Put it on channel 15.
We got a girl in Brooklyn watching it
on her boyfriend's computer.
It's on the damn lnternet.
- What?
Hold on.
Son of a bitch.
- That's Ramos, isn't it?
That's Phil Ramos.
Yes, it is.
- Who's Phil Ramos?
He was a motorman. He killed a
couple of passengers 10 years ago?
High on cough syrup, ran into the
"A precious piece of information, notwithstanding your 'not that.' I ask you, why should the Inquisitors and the Jesuits of your imagination live but for the attainment of 'mean material pleasures?' Why should there not be found among them one single genuine martyr suffering under a great and holy idea and loving humanity with all his heart? Now let us suppose that among all these Jesuits thirsting and hungering but after 'mean material pleasures' there may be one, just one like my old Inquisitor, who had himself fed upon roots in the wilderness, suffered the tortures of damnation while trying to conquer flesh, in order to become free and perfect, but who had never ceased to love humanity, and who one day prophetically beheld the truth; who saw as plain as he could see that the bulk of humanity could never be happy under the old system, that it was not for them that the great Idealist had come and died and dreamt of His Universal Harmony. Having realized that truth, he returned into the world and joined—intelligent and practical people. Is this so impossible?"
platform, went to jail for manslaughter.
Phil Ramos, I want everything.
Prison time, known associates, the
works. Looks like it's from the floor.
Should the lnternet be working there?
- No. No way.
Maybe that's how he knows about you.
He Googled you.
Or maybe Ramos told him,
who knows?
Goddamn, it's the mayor.
Hello, Your Honor.
Do me a favor,
forget about those guys.
Easy for you to say.
You rather be one of those hostages?
No.
Listen up, I'll give you a crash course
on hostage negotiating.
We're like rodeo clowns.
We keep the bull from focusing on
what he'd like to do. Which is what?
Kill a cowboy.
- Exactly.
Now, he's got his deadline.
You slow things down.
Preservation of life. That's our mission.
Guy's already proven he's serious.
Next deadline's gonna give a chance again.
How do we deal with that?
- Get the money there on time.
If we don't, we pretend
the deadline doesn't exist...
...talk through it, we buy time,
get movement.
Movement?
- That's right.
Contradicts himself, inconsistency in
his demand, you got some movement.
Right.
- All right, let's go out there.
This was the scene moments ago...
...outside the Rail Control Center
in Midtown.
I'm not gonna speculate right now.
That is a beautiful suit he's got there.
Can't get it out of my head.
I'm gonna die today.
Visualization's a very powerful thing.
"But what can he mean by the words, 'Thou has been fairly warned'?" asked Alexis.
"The day wanes, and night—a dark, hot breathless Spanish night—creeps on and settles upon the city of Seville. The air smells of laurels and orange blossoms. In the Cimmerian darkness of the old Tribunal Hall the iron door of the cell is suddenly thrown open, and the Grand Inquisitor, holding a dark lantern, slowly stalks into the dungeon. He is alone, and, as the heavy door closes behind him, he pauses at the threshold, and, for a minute or two, silently and gloomily scrutinizes the Face before him. At last approaching with measured steps, he sets his lantern down upon the table and addresses Him in these words:
You keep thinking it, you never know.
Please let it be me
who drops this motherfucker.
Hey, Garber. You there, buddy?
Yeah, I'm here.
A little birdie told me the mayor walked in.
Can I talk to him?
Can he hear me?
- How does he know I'm here?
Does he have a camera in here?
- Can he hear me?
We can, we can, we can--
We can all hear you here. Yes.
Okay, good. So tell him--
Tell him I wanna make him a deal.
Tell him I'll make him a deal right now.
Okay, all right.
Well, come on, speak up,
"Not in the least. He seriously regards it as a great service done by himself, his brother monks and Jesuits, to humanity, to have conquered and subjected unto their authority that freedom, and boasts that it was done but for the good of the world. 'For only now,' he says (speaking of the Inquisition) 'has it become possible to us, for the first time, to give a serious thought to human happiness. Man is born a rebel, and can rebels be ever happy?... Thou has been fairly warned of it, but evidently to no use, since Thou hast rejected the only means which could make mankind happy; fortunately at Thy departure Thou hast delivered the task to us.... Thou has promised, ratifying the pledge by Thy own words, in words giving us the right to bind and unbind... and surely, Thou couldst not think of depriving us of it now!'"
Ivan paused. He had entered into the situation and had spoken with great animation, but now he suddenly burst out laughing.
Mr. Mayor.
You're talking to your constituents.
We got a train full
of registered voters. Don't you care?
Don't you care about your voters?
This is not a good idea.
Don't talk. Don't engage with him.
I know what I'm doing,
I've been doing this a long time.
Come on, buddy, speak up.
You gotta hit the blue button there,
Your Honor.
Yes, this is the mayor.
Hey. Good to meet you, man.
And listen, tell me this, is this true?
I read that you make, like...
...one dollar a year to be a mayor
of New York, is that true?
Yes, but at least it's honest work.
After taxes that's, like,
87 cents, isn't it?
Yes.
Don't bullshit me, man.
It would take, like, 3000 years
to pay off that suit that you're wearing.
What do you got, 20, 30 million
dollars or something like that?
You don't get that without screwing
someone, screwing everyone.
I'm sure your wife knows
something about that.
You said you had a deal for me.
Yeah, I do.
I wanna make you a deal.
I wanna tell you
you could come down here...
...and I will trade you for all these
passengers in the train, how's that?
Okay, you could save the lives
of 17 New Yorkers.
"Now again, I do not understand," interrupted Alyosha. "Does the old man mock and laugh?"
Now, that's a good deal.
What do you think?
Give us a moment.
Okay.
I'll give you a moment.
You turn this into a circus,
gonna get someone killed.
Now, you entered his world, exit it.
Okay, time's up. What's the deal?
It's a nice offer, but I'm afraid
I'm gonna have to decline.
Good. Because if you begged me,
I wouldn't give you that deal, man.
You think anyone cares about
a philandering asshole like you?
New York would love me to
pull the fucking trigger on you.
Hey, Garber. This is the-- This is
the guy that's trying to get rid of you.
Keep talking.
- Do you believe this shit?
Calm--
- You don't think he...
...broke the same rules we broke?
He knows it, I know it.
- Calm him down.
All right--
- He can eat shit.
Calm him down.
- You're--...
You're breaking up.
- He can kiss my ass.
I like the deal.
It's a good deal, but--
Fuck you, Mr. Mayor.
Now, I want my fucking money now.
You understand me? Now.
"'It is Thou! ... Thou!' ... Receiving no reply, he rapidly continues: 'Nay, answer not; be silent! ... And what couldst Thou say? ... I know but too well Thy answer.... Besides, Thou hast no right to add one syllable to that which was already uttered by Thee before.... Why shouldst Thou now return, to impede us in our work? For Thou hast come but for that only, and Thou knowest it well. But art Thou as well aware of what awaits Thee in the morning? I do not know, nor do I care to know who thou mayest be: be it Thou or only thine image, to-morrow I will condemn and burn Thee on the stake, as the most wicked of all the heretics; and that same people, who to-day were kissing Thy feet, to-morrow at one bend of my finger, will rush to add fuel to Thy funeral pile... Wert Thou aware of this?' he adds, speaking as if in solemn thought, and never for one instant taking his piercing glance off the meek Face before him."....
Just tell him the money's on the way.
- The money's on the way.
Because he's, like,
a used-car salesman, this asshole.
He can lick my bunghole,
motherfucker.
One mistake
and everyone has something to say.
Was she worth it?
Yes. You have nine minutes.
How are you gonna get the money?
They're shutting down every
intersection here to Brooklyn.
Phil Ramos, male, Hispanic, 39.
Sentenced two to four years
for manslaughter...
...paroled last month from Clinton.
His PO, Justafarro, says he's
living in a halfway house in Queens.
He's not an absconder, he made his
appearances, his piss has been clean.
But he was a no-show at work today.
He didn't call in, nothing.
He knows the system.
The perfect place in the subway
to stop the train.
He's been out a month.
This wasn't planned in three weeks.
Find out Ramos's cellmates,
who worked in the laundry with him.
Call lists, visitors lists ASAP.
105 North Avenue.
Shit. Look out.
- Shit.
The market has tumbled nearly 7 percent...
...as investors continue to react to events....
They just came off the bridge.
Why didn't we send
a helicopter for the money?
Now remember what I said
about talking through deadlines.
We better have a plan B in case
the money isn't there on the dot.
Put him on his heels.
He knows things.
We know things too, right?
- Right.
Ask him about Phil Ramos. All right?
"'Decide then thyself.' sternly proceeded the Inquisitor, 'which of ye twain was right: Thou who didst reject, or he who offered? Remember the subtle meaning of question the first, which runs thus: Wouldst Thou go into the world empty-handed? Would Thou venture thither with Thy vague and undefined promise of freedom, which men, dull and unruly as they are by nature, are unable so much as to understand, which they avoid and fear?—for never was there anything more unbearable to the human race than personal freedom! Dost Thou see these stones in the desolate and glaring wilderness? Command that these stones be made bread—and mankind will run after Thee, obedient and grateful like a herd of cattle. But even then it will be ever diffident and trembling, lest Thou should take away Thy hand, and they lose thereby their bread! Thou didst refuse to accept the offer for fear of depriving men of their free choice; for where is there freedom of choice where men are bribed with bread? Man shall not live by bread alone—was Thine answer. Thou knewest not, it seems, that it was precisely in the name of that earthly bread that the terrestrial spirit would one day rise against, struggle with, and finally conquer Thee, followed by the hungry multitudes shouting: "Who is like unto that Beast, who maketh fire come down from heaven upon the earth!" Knowest Thou not that, but a few centuries hence, and the whole of mankind will have proclaimed in its wisdom and through its mouthpiece, Science, that there is no more crime, hence no more sin on earth, but only hungry people? "Feed us first and then command us to be virtuous!" will be the words written upon the banner lifted against Thee—a banner which shall destroy Thy Church to its very foundations, and in the place of Thy Temple shall raise once more the terrible Tower of Babel; and though its building be left unfinished, as was that of the first one, yet the fact will remain recorded that Thou couldst, but wouldst not, prevent the attempt to build that new tower by accepting the offer, and thus saving mankind a millennium of useless suffering on earth. And it is to us that the people will return again. They will search for us catacombs, as we shall once more be persecuted and martyred—and they will begin crying unto us: "Feed us, for they who promised us the fire from heaven have deceived us!" It is then that we will finish building their tower for them. For they alone who feed them shall finish it, and we shall feed them in Thy name, and lying to them that it is in that name. Oh, never, never, will they learn to feed themselves without our help! No science will ever give them bread so long as they remain free, so long as they refuse to lay that freedom at our feet, and say: "Enslave, but feed us!" That day must come when men will understand that freedom and daily bread enough to satisfy all are unthinkable and can never be had together, as men will never be able to fairly divide the two among themselves. And they will also learn that they can never be free, for they are weak, vicious, miserable nonentities born wicked and rebellious. Thou has promised to them the bread of life, the bread of heaven; but I ask Thee again, can that bread ever equal in the sight of the weak and the vicious, the ever ungrateful human race, their daily bread on earth? And even supposing that thousands and tens of thousands follow Thee in the name of, and for the sake of, Thy heavenly bread, what will become of the millions and hundreds of millions of human beings to weak to scorn the earthly for the sake of Thy heavenly bread? Or is it but those tens of thousands chosen among the great and the mighty, that are so dear to Thee, while the remaining millions, innumerable as the grains of sand in the seas, the weak and the loving, have to be used as material for the former? No, no! In our sight and for our purpose the weak and the lowly are the more dear to us. True, they are vicious and rebellious, but we will force them into obedience, and it is they who will admire us the most. They will regard us as gods, and feel grateful to those who have consented to lead the masses and bear their burden of freedom by ruling over them—so terrible will that freedom at last appear to men! Then we will tell them that it is in obedience to Thy will and in Thy name that we rule over them. We will deceive them once more and lie to them once again—for never, never more will we allow Thee to come among us. In this deception we will find our suffering, for we must needs lie eternally, and never cease to lie!
Just get him talking.
You can do it.
Hey, Ryder.
- The money here yet?
On the way.
Then what the fuck are you calling me for?
Actually, I just called to talk.
Oh, yeah?
What do you wanna talk about?
You said that
being in the motorman's cab...
...was a little like
being in a confessional, right?
Yeah?
I was thinking maybe it's like
being in a prison cell too.
What are you trying to say? That
if I get caught, I'd better get used to it?
No, I'm just wondering.
Maybe you're already used to it.
I'm wondering maybe that's how
you meet a guy like Phil Ramos?
How the fuck he know that?
Why don't you tell me?
Then we'll both know.
After today's confession...
...you're gonna find your ass in prison too.
Which is my point. I want you
to hook me up on the inside.
You know everybody. This way,
when I come up with my heist plan...
...you know, I'll cut you in.
I can see I've inspired you.
Okay, I got a story for you.
It might help you in prison.
You wanna hear it? We got a minute.
I'd like to hear a little story.
So back in the day,
when I was a high roller....
When were you ever a high roller?
I told you I fed this city breakfast.
Grits and eggs?
Something like that.
Anyway, back in the day...
...I took this chick to lceland.
Iceland? Is that where
all the high rollers go?
Six hours from Kennedy
and the nightclub scene is...
...you know, is intense.
I thought I'd take this chick to lceland.
What's her name?
- Ludvika.
She was Lithuanian.
She was an ass model.
She asked you what?
You heard of hand models?
Advertisement?
Right, she was an ass model.
She did jeans and, you know,
magazines and shit.
Anyway,
it was Fashion Week in New York...
...and I took her to lceland.
Ludvika, Lithuanian, ass model,
lceland, you took her to the ice.
So what?
- Well, for 500 bucks...
...they'll take you on a dogsled ride
on a glacier.
Dogsled?
- Yeah. And you know the old saying;
If you're not the lead dog...
...the view never changes?
- Right.
Otherwise, you're always looking at
the asshole of the dog in front of you.
Be funny in a minute when I get to that part.
It's funny now.
And it's 8 in the morning,
we haven't been to bed yet...
...and we're tooling across this glacier...
...and I got this hangover that's
creeping up the back of my neck...
...and guess what I'm looking at?
Obviously you're staring at the ass
of the dog in front of you.
You got it.
So this dog, out of nowhere,
just lifts its hind legs up...
...and puts them in the harness there...
...and just takes a shit
while he's running on his front paws.
So he's dumping
and running all at the same time.
Now, that's multi-fucking-tasking
if you ask me.
Get out of here. Did it hit you?
Shit always hits you, man.
I didn't know it at the time,
but it was profound.
Profound? You lost me.
- Yeah.
Well, you know, when I went to
prison later on, which you called...
...I had trouble going to the toilet.
You know, a privacy thing.
And I couldn't take a shit.
I was scared shitless, literally.
So you know what I thought of?
You thought of the dog.
And blind faith remained alone
- That's right.
"'Hast thou the right to divulge to us a single one of the mysteries of that world whence Thou comest?' enquires of Him my old Inquisitor, and forthwith answers for Him. 'Nay, Thou has no such right. For, that would be adding to that which was already said by Thee before; hence depriving people of that freedom for which Thou hast so stoutly stood up while yet on earth.... Anything new that Thou would now proclaim would have to be regarded as an attempt to interfere with that freedom of choice, as it would come as a new and a miraculous revelation superseding the old revelation of fifteen hundred years ago, when Thou didst so repeatedly tell the people: "The truth shall make you free." Behold then, Thy "free" people now!' adds the old man with sombre irony. 'Yea!... it has cost us dearly.' he continues, sternly looking at his victim. 'But we have at last accomplished our task, and—in Thy name.... For fifteen long centuries we had to toil and suffer owing to that "freedom": but now we have prevailed and our work is done, and well and strongly it is done. ....Believest not Thou it is so very strong? ... And why should Thou look at me so meekly as if I were not worthy even of Thy indignation?... Know then, that now, and only now, Thy people feel fully sure and satisfied of their freedom; and that only since they have themselves and of their own free will delivered that freedom unto our hands by placing it submissively at our feet. But then, that is what we have done. Is it that which Thou has striven for? Is this the kind of "freedom" Thou has promised them?'"
I thought if that dog could do
what it needed to do, so could l.
Saved my fucking life.
"'And thus, after all Thou has suffered for mankind and its freedom, the present fate of men may be summed up in three words: Unrest, Confusion, Misery! Thy great prophet John records in his vision, that he saw, during the first resurrection of the chosen servants of God—"the number of them which were sealed" in their foreheads, "twelve thousand" of every tribe. But were they, indeed, as many? Then they must have been gods, not men. They had shared Thy Cross for long years, suffered scores of years' hunger and thirst in dreary wildernesses and deserts, feeding upon locusts and roots—and of these children of free love for Thee, and self-sacrifice in Thy name, Thou mayest well feel proud. But remember that these are but a few thousands—of gods, not men; and how about all others? And why should the weakest be held guilty for not being able to endure what the strongest have endured? Why should a soul incapable of containing such terrible gifts be punished for its weakness? Didst Thou really come to, and for, the "elect" alone? If so, then the mystery will remain for ever mysterious to our finite minds. And if a mystery, then were we right to proclaim it as one, and preach it, teaching them that neither their freely given love to Thee nor freedom of conscience were essential, but only that incomprehensible mystery which they must blindly obey even against the dictates of their conscience. Thus did we. We corrected and improved Thy teaching and based it upon "Miracle, Mystery, and Authority." And men rejoiced at finding themselves led once more like a herd of cattle, and at finding their hearts at last delivered of the terrible burden laid upon them by Thee, which caused them so much suffering. Tell me, were we right in doing as we did. Did not we show our great love for humanity, by realizing in such a humble spirit its helplessness, by so mercifully lightening its great burden, and by permitting and remitting for its weak nature every sin, provided it be committed with our authorization? For what, then, hast Thou come again to trouble us in our work? And why lookest Thou at me so penetratingly with Thy meek eyes, and in such a silence? Rather shouldst Thou feel wroth, for I need not Thy love, I reject it, and love Thee not, myself. Why should I conceal the truth from Thee? I know but too well with whom I am now talking! What I had to say was known to Thee before, I read it in Thine eye. How should I conceal from Thee our secret? If perchance Thou wouldst hear it from my own lips, then listen: We are not with Thee, but with him, and that is our secret! For centuries have we abandoned Thee to follow him, yes—eight centuries. Eight hundred years now since we accepted from him the gift rejected by Thee with indignation; that last gift which he offered Thee from the high mountain when, showing all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them, he saith unto Thee: "All these things will I give Thee, if Thou will fall down and worship me!" We took Rome from him and the glaive of Caesar, and declared ourselves alone the kings of this earth, its sole kings, though our work is not yet fully accomplished. But who is to blame for it? Our work is but in its incipient stage, but it is nevertheless started. We may have long to wait until its culmination, and mankind have to suffer much, but we shall reach the goal some day, and become sole Caesars, and then will be the time to think of universal happiness for men.
Wow, that is profound.
Keep going.
And, you know, it's--
People adapt. It's like you and l,
like today.
We didn't know how it was gonna start.
Wrong.
- Wrong what?
I knew exactly how it was gonna start.
"Of course; and it could not well be otherwise," again retorted Ivan. "The Grand Inquisitor begins from his very first words by telling Him that He has no right to add one syllable to that which He had said before. To make the situation clear at once, the above preliminary monologue is intended to convey to the reader the very fundamental idea which underlies Roman Catholicism—as well as I can convey it, his words mean, in short: 'Everything was given over by Thee to the Pope, and everything now rests with him alone; Thou hast no business to return and thus hinder us in our work.' In this sense the Jesuits not only talk but write likewise.
Yeah, but do you know how it's gonna end?
I'm tired of talking to you, Garber.
- Wait a minute.
Call me when the money comes in.
You got four minutes.
I don't know what he looks like,
but he sounds good.
Fucking talk shit,
what are you doing?
He's got a sexy voice though.
He'd be my bitch in prison.
Where are we?
Less than 10 blocks away.
We'll make it.
Fuck, look out.
Jesus.
Shit. The goddamn money car
crashed on 1st Avenue.
Get a radio car,
put it on the motorcycles, get it there.
Watch it. Easy.
Here, lean up here.
Hey, get that last bag.
You got 22 seconds, Garber.
- All right, we just had...
...a little problem over here, that's all.
- I don't care.
Two minutes.
- Just tell him it's here.
How's he gonna know?
- I don't think we should lie.
Tell him the truth.
- No, tell him it's there.
Tell him the truth?
He's gonna make me do it.
Ten, nine, eight, seven, six....
- Tell him the truth or lie?
Tell him the truth.
- Tell him it's there.
Four, three....
- Tell him it's here.
It's here.
- Two, one.
The money's there,
it's at 42nd and Vanderbilt.
Liar. Motherfucking liar.
Seven.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
- Ryder. All right, listen.
Lucky lady, up.
Thou art right, O Lord, very right,
- We made a mistake.
I think that's him. That's Ryder.
- Lucky lady, up.
Listen to me, it was an accident.
- Keep talking.
Ryder, we made a mistake.
It's my fault.
The car crashed.
- Tell him something.
That's why the money's not there.
- Up.
Up.
- Wait.
Fuck, no.
- Get up.
Get back in line.
Ryder, like one minute it's gonna take.
Don't do this, for God's sake.
It was an accident.
Come on.
- Wait.
It's the only plan I got.
Ryder, listen, it was an accident.
It was an accident, Ryder.
We made a mistake.
It was an accident, Ryder.
It was an accident.
Come on, motherfucker.
Oh, shit.
God.
Oh, my God.
ESU Team 1 to Sniper 1,
do you have a shot?
That's your fault.
I got an easy shot. Please advise.
Stand by.
- Roger that.
Shit.
What the fuck happened?
Accidental discharge.
I just got bit by a fucking rat.
It's accidental discharge.
Who? Who got shot? Was it Ryder?
No, it was Ramos.
Sergeant? The money there yet?
- What? Yes, yes.
Are you there?
- Get in here.
Shoot any motherfucker that moves.
"And his prisoner, does He never reply? Does He keep silent, looking at him, without saying a word?"
That's an order.
- Shit on your orders.
Can you hear me, Ryder?
Okay,
now somebody else has to die.
Two people, maybe all of us.
Did you hear me?
I heard you, but you gotta understand,
the circumstances...
...they're different now for you.
You gotta rethink.
- No.
You got to adapt.
No, I gave you instructions,
and you know the consequences.
I mean, don't you have a plan B?
No, plan B is enforcing plan A.
And the minute you stop believing me,
motherfucker, that's it.
I believe you, you gotta believe
and understand those cops...
...are gonna be down
and next to you any second--
Bring it, man. Let them
unload their guns, I don't care.
And what's the point of that?
What's the point?
I told you we all owe God a death.
And now it's two minutes
past the deadline, two minutes.
Which means two people,
almost three, have to go.
They have to die.
The money's there, Ryder.
Nobody else has to die.
The money's there.
I don't know what you owe God. I can
tell you, you can't pay him in cash.
You never see a U-Haul
behind a hearse, Ryder.
The Egyptians tried it. It doesn't work.
You can't take the money with you.
Ryder?
You can't take the money with you.
All this talk of God,
I think I need to pray.
Give me a minute.
I can do that.
You did good, Walter.
What's the reality of getting in,
ending this?
We'd have to be willing to accept
heavy casualties.
It's a hard choice, but I say make it.
New York City does not have
an acceptable casualty rate.
This is your area,
what do you suggest?
We should buy time. So far this
son of a bitch hasn't allowed us to.
This might be the first time we got through.
Trust your man? He confessed
to a felony 20 minutes ago.
There are people down there
who are alive because of him.
Until we change the rules
or hope runs out...
...we should stick with the situation
we have now.
Do what you need to do.
Hey, Garber, you there?
Yeah, I'm here.
- Speak up.
I'm here.
I talked to God.
- That's good. What did he say?
He said I should trust in him.
All others, pay cash.
How soon can you get it down here?
From that station, it would take them
about five minutes to walk it down.
No can do.
- About 10 minutes to walk it down.
No, no, no, I mean you, man.
How long would it take you
to come down here?
Don't understand.
What do you mean?
I mean you. I wanna meet you.
And if you bring it,
I know the cops aren't bringing it.
Well, you know, I don't know
how I'm gonna carry that money.
lt must weigh....
- Two-hundred and twenty pounds.
Stick it in a wheelbarrow or something.
Why are we discussing weight?
Shouldn't you think:
'Get the fuck out of there'?
- Okay, get the fuck out of there.
Good, that's progress.
Now, look, plan B. Your idea.
And part of plan B is you, Garber,
deliver that money...
...or I kill another hostage,
you got that?
You got seven minutes, buddy boy.
You got six minutes and 55 seconds,
check me.
Do it.
I check.
And tell that sleazebag negotiator
to call me when you've got the money.
"My intention is to end it with the following scene: Having disburdened his heart, the Inquisitor waits for some time to hear his prisoner speak in His turn. His silence weighs upon him. He has seen that his captive has been attentively listening to him all the time, with His eyes fixed penetratingly and softly on the face of his jailer, and evidently bent upon not replying to him. The old man longs to hear His voice, to hear Him reply; better words of bitterness and scorn than His silence. Suddenly He rises; slowly and silently approaching the Inquisitor, He bends towards him and softly kisses the bloodless, four-score and-ten-year-old lips. That is all the answer. The Grand Inquisitor shudders. There is a convulsive twitch at the corner of his mouth. He goes to the door, opens it, and addressing Him, 'Go,' he says, 'go, and return no more... do not come again... never, never!' and—lets Him out into the dark night. The prisoner vanishes."
You don't have to do this.
Finally somebody got their head
out of their ass, huh?
Hello?
Hey, how you doing, baby?
What are you doing?
What do you mean, what am I doing?
I'm watching the thing, the hostages.
They mentioned you. They said a
dispatcher was talking to the terrorists.
Yeah, yeah, they're not terrorists.
They are if they're down there
waving guns.
Right, right.
Listen, Therese, are you listening?
I'm listening.
- Look, I'm the one that--
You're right. I was the one
that's been talking to them.
I knew it. I am so proud of you.
After everything, all this,
them trying to fire you.
Them sticking you
in a dispatch job and you--
Where are you?
I'm at a heliport.
I'm getting ready to get on a helicopter...
...because they want me to take
the money down to the tunnel.
What? Are they crazy?
It's real simple. There's nothing to it.
- Over there.
What it is, is he knows I'm not a cop,
so he wants me to come down--
Is it all right if I wait here?
Can I wait here?
They need me to take the money down
because they know I'm not a cop...
...and, you know, they're saying
that he might kill somebody, honey.
Well, then somebody has to die,
because you can't.
He's talking to his wife.
I understand, baby.
Listen to me. Listen to me.
Just tell Angela at the meet--
- Let's go.
When she runs over the hurdles.
Tell her to run straight through the hurdles.
Just like I always tell her, okay?
- Come on, we gotta go.
You tell her yourself.
Now, you listen to me.
- Yeah, I'm listening.
Now, you do what you have to do,
but we need milk.
So on your way home,
I want you to bring a gallon.
Of milk? Okay.
You promise.
Why do we--? Why a gallon?
Why not a half a gallon?
Just bring a gallon. A gallon.
Okay. Okay.
I can get a half a gallon,
I'll get a half a gallon.
I gotta go.
All right, thanks, guys.
Put your-- Put your headset on.
You ever do anything like this before?
You know, go in unarmed?
Yeah. Two years ago, Brooklyn.
Flatbush Avenue.
I got the hostages out.
And the guy with the gun?
The guy with the gun,
didn't end well for him.
For the guy with the gun?
- Yeah.
It's nice seeing it
from this perspective, huh?
You can see what you're fighting for.
I love you so much.
Did you hear me?
Yeah.
Well, do you love me back?
Can't really talk right now.
All you have to say is 'Yes.'
That's a lot less words than saying,
'l can't talk.'
I'm having a really weird fucking day.
Oh, God.
If we'd anticipated this,
we could have made a lot of money.
What kind of guy would you expect...
...to take a model to lceland
for the weekend?
An ass model.
- An ass model.
A Wall Street guy.
- A Wall Street guy.
He's here.
The one-hour time limit
reported earlier has expired.
We're not sure who this is. It could
be hostage negotiators or detectives.
Once we have any updates,
we'll be back to you live.
Camonetti.
- How are you?
Mr. Garber, Lieutenant Staley.
- Pleasure.
You got a radio set up to the train?
- Set up right there.
You can talk to the train or to Rail Control.
Okay. Just do what he says,
and remember everything you see.
Let's go.
So who the hell did you fuck
to get this job?
Myself. It was easier than it looked.
Yeah, fucking yourself always is.
Pelham 123, come in.
Pelham 123, come in.
Who am I talking to?
This is Lieutenant Camonetti.
We spoke earlier.
Yeah, you're the greaseball.
What'd you do, go out for a pizza?
What's my money doing, man?
Where is it?
Mr. Garber is in the tunnel.
The money is two minutes away.
Oh, Garber, man.
That is a dependable man.
He's a good man too.
Absolutely. How about you, Ryder?
Everybody's got some good in them,
don't you think?
Is this where you try to get through to me?
I don't think so, motherfucker.
Now I got three instructions for you.
Number one,
when this conversation is over...
...I want you to restore the power
to the whole sector.
Number two,
I want you to clear the local tracks...
...from 68th Street down to Coney lsland.
And when I say, 'Clear, '
I don't wanna see no cops.
I want all the lights green.
Don't trip me up with a red,
got that?
Absolutely.
And number three,
don't play games with me...
...or I'll track you down and I'll fuck you
in your greaseball ass, motherfucker.
Over and out.
Let's go.
All right.
Know how to use one of these?
- No.
It's really simple. Okay?
Safety's on, safety's off.
On, off.
Aim at anything you don't like,
you pull the trigger.
What if they frisk me?
- We got that covered.
That's it?
- That's it.
It's got a false bottom.
It's gonna be this one. You got that?
I got it.
- Good.
Don't worry about it.
Just don't fuck it up.
Okay.
We got an lD on Ryder.
Dennis Ford. He was released from
Clinton Correctional two weeks ago.
Did a nine-year stretch.
The last four on the same cell block
as Phil Ramos.
His name shows up
on an lcelandic Air passenger list...
...in September of 1998,
right after Fashion Week.
Dennis Ford. You remember?
We used his case when
he was running as an example of--
The kind of nonsense that we would
clean up if I got elected mayor, yeah.
He ran a private equity firm.
His biggest client was the pension fund.
He siphoned off....
- Twenty-million dollars.
He did a plea bargain for three.
The judge gave him 10.
Maybe that's why he's so pissed off.
Judge gave him 10 years because we
didn't recover all of the city's money.
Couple million unaccounted for.
Seed money.
"It may be so. You have guessed rightly there. And it is so, and that is his whole secret; but is this not the acutest sufferings for such a man as he, who killed all his young life in asceticism in the desert, and yet could not cure himself of his love towards his fellowmen? Toward the end of his life he becomes convinced that it is only by following the advice of the great and terrible spirit that the fate of these millions of weak rebels, these 'half-finished samples of humanity created in mockery' can be made tolerable. And once convinced of it, he sees as clearly that to achieve that object, one must follow blindly the guidance of the wise spirit, the fearful spirit of death and destruction, hence accept a system of lies and deception and lead humanity consciously this time toward death and destruction, and moreover, be deceiving them all the while in order to prevent them from realizing where they are being led, and so force the miserable blind men to feel happy, at least while here on earth. And note this: a wholesale deception in the name of Him, in whose ideal the old man had so passionately, so fervently, believed during nearly his whole life! Is this no suffering? And were such a solitary exception found amidst, and at the head of, that army 'that thirsts for power but for the sake of the mean pleasures of life,' think you one such man would not suffice to bring on a tragedy? Moreover, one single man like my Inquisitor as a principal leader, would prove sufficient to discover the real guiding idea of the Romish system with all its armies of Jesuits, the greatest and chiefest conviction that the solitary type described in my poem has at no time ever disappeared from among the chief leaders of that movement. Who knows but that terrible old man, loving humanity so stubbornly and in such an original way, exists even in our days in the shape of a whole host of such solitary exceptions, whose existence is not due to mere chance, but to a well-defined association born of mutual consent, to a secret league, organized several centuries back, in order to guard the Mystery from the indiscreet eyes of the miserable and weak people, and only in view of their own happiness? And so it is; it cannot be otherwise. I suspect that even Masons have some such Mystery underlying the basis of their organization, and that it is just the reason why the Roman Catholic clergy hate them so, dreading to find in them rivals, competition, the dismemberment of the unity of the idea, for the realization of which one flock and one Shepherd are needed. However, in defending my idea, I look like an author whose production is unable to stand criticism. Enough of this."
Seed money? For what?
For today, you play the terrorist card,
you panic the market into a drop.
You know it's coming, you make
a great deal with $2 million.
What about the hostage money?
- That's nothing...
"These words give the key to what the old man has to say for his justification... But listen—
...compared to the money you could
make. Let's get downtown to the SEC.
Check the trades,
especially the put options.
Good luck, Garber.
- See you when you get back.
We got company.
Garber.
When you put your socks on
this morning, did you ever think...?
Turn around, let him frisk you.
I was worried about you.
I thought maybe you'd get lost...
...but then I remembered
you were a motorman, so....
These tunnels don't change much,
do they?
Just the people in them.
Are we good?
- It's here. We're good.
All right, come on up.
Let's go.
Damn.
You're taller than I thought you'd be.
You're good-looking too.
Come on, sit down.
It's nice to meet you.
What do you weigh,
about, what, 220?
Yeah, yeah, yeah,
220 on a good day.
Oh, that's Ramos.
He's what you would have called
the brains in the operation.
Dumb fuck.
So how long has it been
since you've driven one of these?
That's why you brought me here?
- You're a motorman, right?
Once a motorman,
always a motorman.
You play your cards right,
you might get a part of the cut.
Well, this is--
It's a new train.
"This particular visit has, of course, nothing to do with the promised Advent, when, according to the programme, 'after the tribulation of those days,' He will appear 'coming in the clouds of heaven.' For, that 'coming of the Son of Man,' as we are informed, will take place as suddenly 'as the lightning cometh out of the east and shineth even unto the west.' No; this once, He desired to come unknown, and appear among His children, just when the bones of the heretics, sentenced to be burnt alive, had commenced crackling at the flaming stakes. Owing to His limitless mercy, He mixes once more with mortals and in the same form in which He was wont to appear fifteen centuries ago. He descends, just at the very moment when before king, courtiers, knights, cardinals, and the fairest dames of court, before the whole population of Seville, upwards of a hundred wicked heretics are being roasted, in a magnificent auto-da-fe ad majorem Dei gloriam, by the order of the powerful Cardinal Grand Inquisitor.
I'm not certified on the new trains.
Well, I got faith in you, man.
But I'm going to ask you one question.
You know, that thing when you
told your wife about the 35 K...
...how did she react?
We gotta talk about--?
- Don't be sensitive.
I'm not being--
- Did she freak out or what?
She wasn't happy,
but she understood.
Well, that's love, right?
No, that's marriage.
That's another thing.
"In it, it is Christ who appears on the scene. True, He says nothing, but only appears and passes out of sight. Fifteen centuries have elapsed since He left the world with the distinct promise to return 'with power and great glory'; fifteen long centuries since His prophet cried, 'Prepare ye the way of the Lord!' since He Himself had foretold, while yet on earth, 'Of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven but my Father only.' But Christendom expects Him still. ...
You think they're gonna move that train?
Seems like a possibility. How are we
with street-level, emergency exits?
I got a blanket.
I got radio cars and a man
at every exit from 42nd to South Ferry.
We gotta go.
Hey, Camonetti.
Fucking greaseball, man.
Hey, greaseball, speak up.
I see red. I don't see green.
What's taking so fucking long?
Blanket is not tucked in yet.
Stall him. I need two minutes,
buy me two minutes.
Haven't cleared the tracks yet.
Mr. Ryder, we'll be up and ready
in less than two minutes.
We're gonna move forward here,
okay?
We're gonna move forward,
and if we get onto a red signal...
...and the brakes trip up...
...your friend Walter Garber's
getting it in the head.
You got it?
- Yes, sir. I got it.
Let's roll, let's roll.
Hope you were bluffing.
Yeah, I'm bluffing, man.
You gotta say what you gotta say.
You thought by coming down here,
you'd be redeemed, didn't you?
God bless you, Garber.
You're more fucked up than I am.
At least the same fucked up.
Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go.
Let's go.
She's on the move.
Put some speed on it.
He's by me, headed south.
Male, black, at the controls.
Motherfuckers.
You're playing with fire, my man.
I wanna see them green.
Turn to green or I'll put a hole
in Garber's head right now.
Do it.
- We believe you.
We're moving as fast as we can.
"'Thou couldst accept the glaive of Caesar Thyself; why didst Thou reject the offer? By accepting from the powerful spirit his third offer Thou would have realized every aspiration man seeketh for himself on earth; man would have found a constant object for worship; one to deliver his conscience up to, and one that should unite all together into one common and harmonious ant-hill; for an innate necessity for universal union constitutes the third and final affliction of mankind. Humanity as a whole has ever aspired to unite itself universally. Many were, the great nations with great histories, but the greater they were, the more unhappy they felt, as they felt the stronger necessity of a universal union among men. Great conquerors, like Timoor and Tchengis-Khan, passed like a cyclone upon the face of the earth in their efforts to conquer the universe, but even they, albeit unconsciously, expressed the same aspiration towards universal and common union. In accepting the kingdom of the world and Caesar's purple, one would found a universal kingdom and secure to mankind eternal peace. And who can rule mankind better than those who have possessed themselves of man's conscience, and hold in their hand man's daily bread? Having accepted Caesar's glaive and purple, we had, of course, but to deny Thee, to henceforth follow him alone. Oh, centuries of intellectual riot and rebellious free thought are yet before us, and their science will end by anthropophagy, for having begun to build their Babylonian tower without our help they will have to end by anthropophagy. But it is precisely at that time that the Beast will crawl up to us in full submission, and lick the soles of our feet, and sprinkle them with tears of blood and we shall sit upon the scarlet-colored Beast, and lifting up high the golden cup "full of abomination and filthiness," shall show written upon it the word "Mystery"! But it is only then that men will see the beginning of a kingdom of peace and happiness. Thou art proud of Thine own elect, but Thou has none other but these elect, and we—we will give rest to all. But that is not the end. Many are those among thine elect and the laborers of Thy vineyard, who, tired of waiting for Thy coming, already have carried and will yet carry, the great fervor of their hearts and their spiritual strength into another field, and will end by lifting up against Thee Thine own banner of freedom. But it is Thyself Thou hast to thank. Under our rule and sway all will be happy, and will neither rebel nor destroy each other as they did while under Thy free banner. Oh, we will take good care to prove to them that they will become absolutely free only when they have abjured their freedom in our favor and submit to us absolutely. Thinkest Thou we shall be right or still lying? They will convince themselves of our rightness, for they will see what a depth of degrading slavery and strife that liberty of Thine has led them into. Liberty, Freedom of Thought and Conscience, and Science will lead them into such impassable chasms, place them face to face before such wonders and insoluble mysteries, that some of them—more rebellious and ferocious than the rest—will destroy themselves; others—rebellious but weak—will destroy each other; while the remainder, weak, helpless and miserable, will crawl back to our feet and cry: "'Yes; right were ye, oh Fathers of Jesus; ye alone are in possession of His mystery, and we return to you, praying that ye save us from ourselves!" Receiving their bread from us, they will clearly see that we take the bread from them, the bread made by their own hands, but to give it back to them in equal shares and that without any miracle; and having ascertained that, though we have not changed stones into bread, yet bread they have, while every other bread turned verily in their own hands into stones, they will be only to glad to have it so. Until that day, they will never be happy. And who is it that helped the most to blind them, tell me? Who separated the flock and scattered it over ways unknown if it be not Thee? But we will gather the sheep once more and subject them to our will for ever. We will prove to them their own weakness and make them humble again, whilst with Thee they have learnt but pride, for Thou hast made more of them than they ever were worth. We will give them that quiet, humble happiness, which alone benefits such weak, foolish creatures as they are, and having once had proved to them their weakness, they will become timid and obedient, and gather around us as chickens around their hen. They will wonder at and feel a superstitious admiration for us, and feel proud to be led by men so powerful and wise that a handful of them can subject a flock a thousand millions strong. Gradually men will begin to fear us. They will nervously dread our slightest anger, their intellects will weaken, their eyes become as easily accessible to tears as those of children and women; but we will teach them an easy transition from grief and tears to laughter, childish joy and mirthful song. Yes; we will make them work like slaves, but during their recreation hours they shall have an innocent child-like life, full of play and merry laughter. We will even permit them sin, for, weak and helpless, they will feel the more love for us for permitting them to indulge in it. We will tell them that every kind of sin will be remitted to them, so long as it is done with our permission; that we take all these sins upon ourselves, for we so love the world, that we are even willing to sacrifice our souls for its satisfaction. And, appearing before them in the light of their scapegoats and redeemers, we shall be adored the more for it. They will have no secrets from us. It will rest with us to permit them to live with their wives and concubines, or to forbid them, to have children or remain childless, either way depending on the degree of their obedience to us; and they will submit most joyfully to us the most agonizing secrets of their souls—all, all will they lay down at our feet, and we will authorize and remit them all in Thy name, and they will believe us and accept our mediation with rapture, as it will deliver them from their greatest anxiety and torture—that of having to decide freely for themselves. And all will be happy, all except the one or two hundred thousands of their rulers. For it is but we, we the keepers of the great Mystery who will be miserable. There will be thousands of millions of happy infants, and one hundred thousand martyrs who have taken upon themselves the curse of knowledge of good and evil. Peaceable will be their end, and peacefully will they die, in Thy name, to find behind the portals of the grave—but death. But we will keep the secret inviolate, and deceive them for their own good with the mirage of life eternal in Thy kingdom. For, were there really anything like life beyond the grave, surely it would never fall to the lot of such as they! People tell us and prophesy of Thy coming and triumphing once more on earth; of Thy appearing with the army of Thy elect, with Thy proud and mighty ones; but we will answer Thee that they have saved but themselves while we have saved all. We are also threatened with the great disgrace which awaits the whore, "Babylon the great, the mother of harlots"—who sits upon the Beast, holding in her hands the Mystery, the word written upon her forehead; and we are told that the weak ones, the lambs shall rebel against her and shall make her desolate and naked. But then will I arise, and point out to Thee the thousands of millions of happy infants free from any sin. And we who have taken their sins upon us, for their own good, shall stand before Thee and say: "Judge us if Thou canst and darest!" Know then that I fear Thee not. Know that I too have lived in the dreary wilderness, where I fed upon locusts and roots, that I too have blessed freedom with which thou hast blessed men, and that I too have once prepared to join the ranks of Thy elect, the proud and the mighty. But I awoke from my delusion and refused since then to serve insanity. I returned to join the legion of those who corrected Thy mistakes. I left the proud and returned to the really humble, and for their own happiness. What I now tell thee will come to pass, and our kingdom shall be built, I tell Thee not later than to-morrow Thou shalt see that obedient flock which at one simple motion of my hand will rush to add burning coals to Thy stake, on which I will burn Thee for having dared to come and trouble us in our work. For, if there ever was one who deserved more than any of the others our inquisitorial fires—it is Thee! To-morrow I will burn Thee. Dixi'."
What happens if they run a red light?
- lt'll trip the brakes.
Coming up on the first one.
There, that's what I'm looking for.
That's what I'm looking for.
Here he comes, right now.
Garber's driving the train.
Sniper confirmed it.
What are you saying, he's
in on it? There ain't no way.
Sniper killed Ramos,
he was their driver...
...they probably need Garber to drive.
They get to Coney lsland, they hit the
trippers and the brakes will come on.
ls that 33rd?
- Yes, sir.
How far to the signal?
- About a tenth of a mile.
You stop when we get there.
We're moving out. You got that?
I'm slowing down now.
Are they slowing down?
They have to.
They're coming up to a signal point.
What is that?
You're the old motorman,
you tell me.
She stopped just below 33rd Street.
- What the hell are they doing?
Oh, jeez.
Why that little stop?
Train has to stop at signal points.
Some kind of an override?
Yep, some kind of an override,
that's right.
There we go.
Okay, let's move out. Let's go, let's go.
Roosevelt tunnel, which way?
Which way?
She's moving again.
Next stop, 28th Street.
Why that little stop, huh?
I told you, the signal points.
- How do you know...
...they didn't set the throttle, jump?
- We got every exit covered.
There's nowhere to go.
Listen, the throttle can't be set.
It has to be held.
It's the failsafe,
it's a dead-man's switch.
Doesn't have a hand pressing down on it...
...the train stops cold.
Believe me, they're still aboard.
It's going faster.
Emri, off the track. Come on.
Let's go.
Garber, come on.
Come on.
It's gonna derail
before it gets to Coney lsland.
That's it. That's it right there.
Roosevelt tunnel.
It's a fucking train crossover.
Come on. Cross over now.
What?
- Come on, move.
Hey.
Fuck it, let's go.
- We gotta find him.
We don't have time. Let's go.
I love you. I fucking love you.
Geo, I fucking love you too.
Hello? Hello?
We're getting calls.
Cops on the platform
are seeing passengers...
...nobody in the motorman's booth.
- Believe me, they're still aboard.
It's all right.
As soon as we hit a red light...
...the brakes will stop it automatically.
- Yeah, but they're all green.
Four stops away.
Two stops.
Oh, Jesus. The train just stopped.
I really gotta take that piss.
There's no hijackers onboard,
just passengers.
Where was that first stop that they made?
Near 34th.
That's by the Roosevelt spur.
- The what?
A derelict tunnel
built under the Waldorf Hotel.
Converge everything on that area.
Throw a goddamn dragnet over it.
Hey.
Freeze.
Put your hands in the air.
Hey.
Hey.
Burning wicked heretics,
Hey. Get out, get out, get out.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Out of the-- Get out of the way.
Just go, go, go.
911 operator.
- Hello? Hello?
This is Walter Garber, MTA.
- How do you spell that?
Don't worry about how to spell it.
Just tell Lieutenant Camonetti...
...that Ryder is headed
to the Manhattan Bridge.
Cars everywhere. Nobody's
In grand auto-da-fes.
going anywhere for a long time.
Hey. Hey.
ls he in there?
- No, no, no.
No.
- Where did he go?
Brooklyn. He said he couldn't wait,
he started walking.
This fucking city.
"And you, together with him? You too!" despairingly exclaimed Alyosha, while Ivan burst into a still louder fit of laughter.
Come on, you guys. Move out.
"Such is his power over the well-disciplined, submissive and now trembling people, that the thick crowds immediately give way, and scattering before the guard, amid dead silence and without one breath of protest, allow them to lay their sacrilegious hands upon the stranger and lead Him away.... That same populace, like one man, now bows its head to the ground before the old Inquisitor, who blesses it and slowly moves onward. The guards conduct their prisoner to the ancient building of the Holy Tribunal; pushing Him into a narrow, gloomy, vaulted prison-cell, they lock Him in and retire....
Ryder.
Don't move.
So is this how you thought
the day was going to end, huh?
When you put your socks on this morning?
This make you feel better, Garber?
That make everything okay now?
No. But it's a start.
Don't move.
Don't move.
Hey.
Garber Baby boy,
I ain't going back to prison.
I don't-- I don't think you got any--
Any options now or leverage.
Hey.
Hey.
We all owe God a death,
I told you that.
You're wrong, Ryder.
We owe God life.
Life. And that's the life
I gave you back today.
And now you have to
give me something back.
What are you talking about?
You got a gun in your hand,
I want you to use it. Shoot me.
No, shoot me before they shoot me,
or I'm gonna kill you.
I will shoot you.
I don't want to, but I will.
Hey.
"'Meantime, every chance of success was offered Thee. There are three Powers, three unique Forces upon earth, capable of conquering for ever by charming the conscience of these weak rebels—men—for their own good; and these Forces are: Miracle, Mystery and Authority. Thou hast rejected all the three, and thus wert the first to set them an example. When the terrible and all-wise spirit placed Thee on a pinnacle of the temple and said unto Thee, "If Thou be the son of God, cast Thyself down, for it is written, He shall give His angels charge concerning Thee: and in their hands they shall bear Thee up, lest at any time Thou dash Thy foot against a stone!"—for thus Thy faith in Thy father should have been made evident, Thou didst refuse to accept his suggestion and didst not follow it. Oh, undoubtedly, Thou didst act in this with all the magnificent pride of a god, but then men—that weak and rebel race—are they also gods, to understand Thy refusal? Of course, Thou didst well know that by taking one single step forward, by making the slightest motion to throw Thyself down, Thou wouldst have tempted "the Lord Thy God," lost suddenly all faith in Him, and dashed Thyself to atoms against that same earth which Thou camest to save, and thus wouldst have allowed the wise spirit which tempted Thee to triumph and rejoice. But, then, how many such as Thee are to be found on this globe, I ask Thee? Couldst Thou ever for a moment imagine that men would have the same strength to resist such a temptation? Is human nature calculated to reject miracle, and trust, during the most terrible moments in life, when the most momentous, painful and perplexing problems struggle within man's soul, to the free decisions of his heart for the true solution? Oh, Thou knewest well that that action of Thine would remain recorded in books for ages to come, reaching to the confines of the globe, and Thy hope was, that following Thy example, man would remain true to his God, without needing any miracle to keep his faith alive! But Thou knewest not, it seems, that no sooner would man reject miracle than he would reject God likewise, for he seeketh less God than "a sign" from Him. And thus, as it is beyond the power of man to remain without miracles, so, rather than live without, he will create for himself new wonders of his own making; and he will bow to and worship the soothsayer's miracles, the old witch's sorcery, were he a rebel, a heretic, and an atheist a hundred times over. Thy refusal to come down from the cross when people, mocking and wagging their heads were saying to Thee—"Save Thyself if Thou be the son of God, and we will believe in Thee," was due to the same determination—not to enslave man through miracle, but to obtain faith in Thee freely and apart from any miraculous influence. Thou thirstest for free and uninfluenced love, and refuses the passionate adoration of the slave before a Potency which would have subjected his will once for ever. Thou judgest of men too highly here, again, for though rebels they be, they are born slaves and nothing more. Behold, and judge of them once more, now that fifteen centuries have elapsed since that moment. Look at them, whom Thou didst try to elevate unto Thee! I swear man is weaker and lower than Thou hast ever imagined him to be! Can he ever do that which Thou art said to have accomplished? By valuing him so highly Thou hast acted as if there were no love for him in Thine heart, for Thou hast demanded of him more than he could ever give—Thou, who lovest him more than Thyself! Hadst Thou esteemed him less, less wouldst Thou have demanded of him, and that would have been more like love, for his burden would have been made thereby lighter. Man is weak and cowardly. What matters it, if he now riots and rebels throughout the world against our will and power, and prides himself upon that rebellion? It is but the petty pride and vanity of a school-boy. It is the rioting of little children, getting up a mutiny in the class-room and driving their schoolmaster out of it. But it will not last long, and when the day of their triumph is over, they will have to pay dearly for it. They will destroy the temples and raze them to the ground, flooding the earth with blood. But the foolish children will have to learn some day that, rebels though they be and riotous from nature, they are too weak to maintain the spirit of mutiny for any length of time. Suffused with idiotic tears, they will confess that He who created them rebellious undoubtedly did so but to mock them. They will pronounce these words in despair, and such blasphemous utterances will but add to their misery—for human nature cannot endure blasphemy, and takes her own revenge in the end.
- I thought you cared.
No.
- You said:
'Ryder. Ryder,
don't you have anyone who cares?'
I thought that was you.
Come on, man, pay it back.
- I'm not gonna shoot you.
I'm gonna give you 10,
then deal's off.
I got a gun, I'm gonna use it.
I'm gonna take your life back.
"Quite impossible, as you see, to start without an introduction," laughed Ivan. "Well, then, I mean to place the event described in the poem in the sixteenth century, an age—as you must have been told at school—when it was the great fashion among poets to make the denizens and powers of higher worlds descend on earth and mix freely with mortals... In France all the notaries' clerks, and the monks in the cloisters as well, used to give grand performances, dramatic plays in which long scenes were enacted by the Madonna, the angels, the saints, Christ, and even by God Himself. In those days, everything was very artless and primitive. An instance of it may be found in Victor Hugo's drama, Notre Dame de Paris, where, at the Municipal Hall, a play called Le Bon Jugement de la Tres-sainte et Gracièuse Vierge Marie, is enacted in honour of Louis XI, in which the Virgin appears personally to pronounce her 'good judgment.' In Moscow, during the prepetrean period, performances of nearly the same character, chosen especially from the Old Testament, were also in great favour. Apart from such plays, the world was overflooded with mystical writings, 'verses'—the heroes of which were always selected from the ranks of angels, saints and other heavenly citizens answering to the devotional purposes of the age. The recluses of our monasteries, like the Roman Catholic monks, passed their time in translating, copying, and even producing original compositions upon such subjects, and that, remember, during the Tarter period!... In this connection, I am reminded of a poem compiled in a convent—a translation from the Greek, of course—called, 'The Travels of the Mother of God among the Damned,' with fitting illustrations and a boldness of conception inferior nowise to that of Dante. The 'Mother of God' visits hell, in company with the archangel Michael as her cicerone to guide her through the legions of the 'damned.' She sees them all, and is witness to their multifarious tortures. Among the many other exceedingly remarkably varieties of torments—every category of sinners having its own—there is one especially worthy of notice, namely a class of the 'damned' sentenced to gradually sink in a burning lake of brimstone and fire. Those whose sins cause them to sink so low that they no longer can rise to the surface are for ever forgotten by God, i.e., they fade out from the omniscient memory, says the poem—an expression, by the way, of an extraordinary profundity of thought, when closely analysed. The Virgin is terribly shocked, and falling down upon her knees in tears before the throne of God, begs that all she has seen in hell—all, all without exception, should have their sentences remitted to them. Her dialogue with God is colossally interesting. She supplicates, she will not leave Him. And when God, pointing to the pierced hands and feet of her Son, cries, 'How can I forgive His executioners?' She then commands that all the saints, martyrs, angels and archangels, should prostrate themselves with her before the Immutable and Changeless One and implore Him to change His wrath into mercy and—forgive them all. The poem closes upon her obtaining from God a compromise, a kind of yearly respite of tortures between Good Friday and Trinity, a chorus of the 'damned' singing loud praises to God from their 'bottomless pit,' thanking and telling Him:
Hey.
- Come on, man.
Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five--
You gonna take this down to zero?
Come on, motherfucker, shoot me.
I am not going to shoot you.
Five, four. Come on.
Hey.
- Three.
Police, drop your weapon.
I'm disappointed in you. Two.
You're my goddamn hero.
Drop your weapon.
Mr. Garber.
lnteresting day, huh?
- Yes, sir.
You know, just about every day
I make a speech...
...and it starts with:
'I'd like to thank you on behalf of
the city of New York,' blah, blah, blah.
And I never know who I'm thanking or why.
But you...
...did a hell of a thing today.
You went to bat for the city of New York.
And on behalf of me,
I'd like to thank you.
Well, you're welcome.
I mean, it's been an amazing day.
Everybody's thanking me all day,
but I appreciate it. You're welcome.
And I want you to know...
...that tomorrow, the city of New York
is going to go to bat for you.
In a big way. You understand?
Yes, sir.
And this city
has a very good batting average.
I appreciate it.
- All right.
"Joined whom? What intelligent and practical people?" exclaimed Alyosha quite excited. "Why should they be more intelligent than other men, and what secrets and mysteries can they have? They have neither. Atheism and infidelity is all the secret they have. Your Inquisitor does not believe in God, and that is all the Mystery there is in it!"
I'm gonna get home.
Oh, take my car.
No, no, I'll take--
- Put the siren on and everything.
There's a siren on there?
- Yes.
No, I'll take the subway.
But I appreciate it.
Really?
- Yeah.
You know, me, subway all my life.
I get home faster than you anyway.
"Hold, hold!" interrupted Ivan, smiling. "Do not be so excited. A fancy, you say; be it so! Of course, it is a fancy. But stop. Do you really imagine that all this Catholic movement during the last centuries is naught but a desire for power for the mere purpose of 'mean pleasures'? Is this what your Father Paissiy taught you?"
Not you, but, you know,
everybody else.
But thank you, sir.
You a Yankee fan?
No. Well, yes. Yes, of course.
Yeah, right.
Stand clear of the closing doors.
